why B2B teams suck at sales and how to
fix
[Music]
it welcome back to a fresh episode of
Breaking
bb.com I'm your host Sam Dunning and if
you want to check out our past episodes
try the weekday newsletter or apply to
work with us head over to Breaking B2B
so join me today I've got Richard Harris
Richards the owner at the Harris
Consulting Group and co-founder over at
Surf and sales we're going to be diving
into why so many B2B B2B teams suck when
it comes to
selling if it's marketing's fault some
breakdowns on how you can fix it top
mistakes we see and what you should be
doing instead so with that a warm
welcome to the show Richard welcome back
it's been four years since you first
came shamon how we doing sir I'm good we
know you know the important thing is we
both went into our caves for covid and
we are now coming out of hibernation and
it's good to see you and we were
chatting before we jumped on here that
you know we need to do a Better Effort
of staying in touch because I I miss you
Sam and I always love our conversations
whether it's in a session like this or
just offline so uh glad to be back thank
you yeah likewise man looking forward to
diving in we were saying it was it was
when we did a UK versus Us sales
Showdown I think was back in 2020 my
show had a different name back then we
since rebranded and yeah it's uh way too
long in the coming but looking forward
to the episode we're going to be diving
into something a bit unusual usually I
bring on marketers but I like to bring
on sales leaders sales experts every now
and then mainly to get a different spin
on things and also because these days a
lot of sales reps especially bdrs sdrs
are even having marketing leadership so
I think it's always interesting just to
hear the other side of the story let's
say hear the other side of the fence and
understand what's going on with the
trenches so let's dive straight into it
Richard you've trained tons of tech
sales teams B2B teams and more over the
years yes why why is it that so many B2B
teams still suck when it comes to
setting well it has more to do it has
less to do with the
actual Frontline reps whether it's bdr
SDR xdr whatever you call them or the
sales AES account managers has a lot
more to do with leadership okay right it
has a lot more to do with
um leaders not knowing how to lead
emotionally and from the front it has a
lot more to do with
them not knowing the best ways to coach
or wanting to coach uh I think a lot of
leaders particularly in sales still see
management and leadership as
babysitting and In fairness I was one of
these managers like I'm not sitting here
saying well I've been perfect all my
life I wasn't like and and a big reason
now why do those leaders I think suck at
it so much is that the leaders before us
never did a good job right we were
always sort of taught to you know roll
up your sleeves and do the hard work and
do the grit and do all those things
which is great but rarely as a
salesperson who typically gets promoted
into leadership rarely was there ever
any training about soft skills the
emotional balance of your sales team
motivation like motivation was you know
carrot stick here's a spiff that's it
unrealized becomes the stick if the
goals are out of whack and if the goals
are out of whack because executive
leadership has some pie in the sky dream
so a big piece of this is that now on
the front lines there is a piece of
effort and attitude you have to put in
the effort and have a good attitude
about it and I don't mean like cheery
cheery you know willly Wonka I just got
a Golden Ticket attitude I mean you are
going to have to learn and sometimes
you're going to have to self-educate and
so for me it it has a lot to do with
learning how to be more authentic I'll
shut up in a second and um how to be
accountable and so there's this lack of
accountability on the revenue side from
the top down on what it takes to be a
good leader right nobody was ever taught
you know how to be a good leader we were
just promoted because we could hit the
number we helped out with the
interviewing maybe we did a little
onboarding we raised our hand and said I
want to be a
manager you're on
mute you'd think after four years I'd
know how to unmute myself apparently not
I like it I like how we started so I
someone sent this to me
because Scott used to say all the time
that Richard you're on mute yeah you
think four years in I'd learn how to to
use
apparently not so I like that you've
taken a different spin to what I
expected so how much would you say is
weighted on leadership's problem as
opposed to actually the the sales reps
themselves taking accountability and
doing some of those things you
mentioned at least 51% is on the
leadership side I would I would guess
it's 75% on the leadership side um it's
by the way it's getting better right
like it is getting better I don't want
to make it sound like it's it's terrible
um it's getting better and it tends to
get better as the economy gets better
right like as the economy gets better we
have more sales training and enablement
and all those things and coaching it
gets worse when the economy sucks you
know which is kind of interesting
because I mean Sam in your experience
and people you've talked to how many
leaders worked at a company where
leadership coaching was made available
directors of sales PS of sales how to be
a manager like you bring in some outside
Source I was never at one that's not
true one my last real job we kind of had
someone come in but did anybody ever
teach come in and teach you that or do
you know people unless you were like at
Oracle or Salesforce or you know yeah I
was going to say I've never been at
Large Scale businesses to be honest most
of the time apart from when I was in
retail and that's going back donkey
years 12 13 years ago if not more I've
never been in large scale organizations
where did you work in retail
that was I don't know if you know it's a
shop called Jessup so that was like a UK
um retail they did cameras video cameras
videography stuff my very first job in
high school last century I'm a little
older than you was at the Gap so CL so I
I have a retail affection with you I
have a another connection
Sam so yeah we're talking about
leadership and yeah like you say you're
exactly right it's not often that I
think unless you get into real large
scale organizations that some of this
training is readily available and and
the good news is is that it's now
readily available as the individual
right as you're talking about this sort
of breaking B2B well go break your own
mold right organizations now do have you
know stiens or you know education funds
of you know a thousand or $2,000 and
those kind of things and if I were
interviewing I would ask like what do
you have for me to help do my own
self-education not just what are you
going to teach me because I think those
those opportunities now exist they
didn't exist for me right that stuff
wasn't online like you literally had to
go to either a a library or B A book
store and you know now you can actually
find it in podcasts and you can find it
in all these other places um and courses
and online and stuff so that it's a
whole lot better than it used to be and
there's better opportunity than it used
to be got it so I think what would be
quite fun is before I start taking a dig
at
marketing um and I I take all kinds of
stances on this show sometimes I'll have
a go at sales sometimes I'll have a go
at marketing we'll dive into whether
it's marketing's fault for providing bad
leads in a minute but before we get to
that if you're up for Richard I'd like
to share perhaps the top three mistakes
that you see from sales leadership and
how we can resolve them yeah and then
the top three from sales reps himself
and how we can resolve those so if we
start with leadership what are would you
say go with number one first what would
you say is the juiciest
start so I'll start at the highest level
right at that the literally at the VC
and founder level you know I work in a
lot of SAS and startups so that's where
my context is coming
from it's unrealistic goal setting right
and so it it's and there's a balance
between goal
setting making it a
stretch making it a t aable and
greed right and and I don't mean greed
in a bad way not that greed is good like
the movie um more that everybody wants
their money back and that's fair and
you're asking sales reps to you know uh
make you Millionaires and billionaires
but then you're beating them up when it
doesn't
happen right so that's the first mistake
is there's this massive misalignment um
where I think we can get better um I
understand where it comes from in terms
of you know if you've got a VC and you
got series a and your expectations and
those kind of things uh so that's the
first thing if I take it down one level
from that it's this belief system that
only a couple of people should hit their
goal it's like only a couple of people
should hit their goal everybody who
doesn't will stay because they still
want to hit their goal it's like no I'd
much rather have a team hit I'd rather
have 70 to 80% of my team hit their goal
and have a way better attitude and
energy and not have to worry so hard
about recruiting then only have 20% hit
the
goal and then I have to worry about
retention and replacement so those are
those are sort of at the executive level
that I that I think are are big mistakes
and I think the third is is an
unwillingness to understand that
training is a longtail solution and it's
not one and done right like you know
I'll I'll promote myself for one second
like you know in my training it's not I
I don't show up and throw up and train I
have I have a four-week training and
reinforcement there's there's
reinforcement sessions and I think that
that I'll blame a lot of the sales
trainers on that they don't build their
program that way which for me is good so
everybody who's a sales trainer just
skipped that part um so I feel like
there's there's that piece and then the
own the the leaders don't do enough
coaching and then the Reps this is now
here's an interesting thought and then
I'll shut up
again sales Sal is supposed to be the
biggest instigator of change with our
customers yet sales people the front
line and the managers and leaders are
the hardest to make their own
changes I can come in and train and I
always know there's there's a couple of
nuggets people walk away and I know they
do but if they aren't willing to stick
with it well then where's the
accountability there so that that's a
big piece of it we we are instigators of
change but we won't change ourselves
even when we know we can be better so
true so true let's dive into those three
for leadership so we've got unrealistic
goal
setting believing that only a couple of
our reps will actually hit or should
actually hit those targets we've set and
then unwillingness to realize that
training itself is not a oneand done but
a long-term ongoing skill set thing you
should be investing in so let's go our
unrealistic goal
setting what is your advice so you're
you're exactly right and I I get it like
these big SAS companies these big tech
companies that have got tons of funding
they're probably under a ton of pressure
from VCS uh to hit certain goals so then
they feel that they've got to go for
those certain goals and you said some of
it could be greed some of it just could
be mad ambitiousness and there's
obviously nothing wrong with being
ambitious but in Practical senses how
have you recommended teams to set goals
like what is your advice when it comes
to saying this this year this quarter
this is what we want to do yeah it's a
great it's a great question so you know
you have to ask you know the founders
and the VPS like where is this number
coming from and doing some research on a
little bit about well what's the
expectation where's that expectation and
why is that the expectation right so
that's the first thing the other thing
is how do you set the revenue and the
targets I see it all the time is that
everybody wants to ramp and on board
board and then they expect every rep to
make 100% of the quota like when you
build out the quota plan and that's not
realistic and then I will say well how
many people actually do that and if it's
an early stage company they don't even
know right there's no track his there's
no track record there's no history to it
they're just guessing I'm like okay well
you're GNA have a problem in a year and
you're GNA have wasted all this time so
that's one so so again finding that
balance um in and sort of you kind of
have to like whiteboard it a little bit
well okay if this is the goal and you
expect everybody to hit 100% how
realistic do you think it is right and
you have to have this Epiphany moment
now the founder or the VP or you know or
the executives might say well I don't
really have a choice that's what was
dictated it's like okay well then let's
put a plan together to show why that's
unrealistic um and put a plan together
that says well if this is what you want
me to do here's how it's going to look
here's what I think it should be thank
you leaders and we already know what's
going to get chosen I'm just trying to
set that VP of sales up so that in 18
months when they have that you know
stupid conversation you know that's the
thing that it's like well I told you
like why am I getting fired for being
right you know because you know me I'll
I'll I'll hug him out the
door so I think that's a piece of it and
I think that's but that last piece of
you do realize that the average tenure
is this and the average tenure is
because this is what happens every
single time right there's and what
happens when you lose that VP of sales
is the next one comes in and the founder
finally realizes that they made the
mistake on the first one so the second
one gets a better shot that doesn't work
and then it's the third one who finally
figures it out meanwhile if they'd been
listening all along that's a piece of it
yeah so yeah yeah and have you ever
worked with so that that's kind of
looking at it from a I guess either
established a size organization or
company that's that's got some serious
funding have you ever looked at it
perhaps even with your own business or
working with smaller companies on how
they yeah so it's the same thing like a
big company if they're asking me to come
in well I'm like well what are the
mistakes you've made like why am I even
here what's happening oh we didn't hit
numbers we didn't hit numbers okay well
where did those come from how did you
get to that point because I'm going to
give you some advice that you may or may
not like and if you're going to choose
to ignore it that's on you right that's
that's okay so I do this at both big and
small companies um it's the exact same
conversation contextually it might
change a little bit in the sense of like
okay it's a small company you're a
firsttime Founder here's what we need to
express to the board here's um what
expectations should look like okay
you're afraid to go to the board fine
we'll build it out this way but don't be
surprised in a few months if this
happens right whatever the if might be
so conversation's the same every place I
go now at the bigger companies they
often have a historical track record
right this this is probably the best way
to describe it
Sam forecasting will never ever be
accurate forecasting should always get
better that's the key piece right and if
you think about you know public
companies right like so here in the
states it's earning seasonal all the
companies are announcing their earnings
you know they've got
macroeconomics and like really really
smart people who study this stuff and
run you know all kinds of data analytics
to determine this stuff well you know
the rest of us are like licking our
finger and you know which way is the
wind blowing here's a dartboard like I
think we can do this right so um so you
know your forecast needs to be looked at
as a as a measure not an exact right um
that's my opinion anyway so okay let's
move on to point two which is we've kind
of touched on a bit with one believing
only a couple of our sales team should
hit their goal what do you mean by that
is that just being wildly safe and
conservative or is it something
else uh I think it's one of these
copycat leagues well that's the way
always been done right right you know
you know why do you you know like you
you know again and I I don't mean to
pick on the VCS because let's face it
without VCS there would not be a lot of
jobs that exist so so grateful for that
is that they're driving things I think
at a certain numbers level and there are
some amazing VCS out there that I know
you know um uh Landis is a really good
one I like at emergence and um bessmer I
like and and uh Michael over um
uh out of New York there's another guy
but and there's tons of great VCS out
there um who understand this balance and
communication between the what their VCS
want and how to handle the the startup
um I think it's a copycat League it's
the way it's always been done before um
and we're not looking at the evidence of
gosh the average sales leaders there
only 16 to 18 months well what should we
be doing differently with that sales
leader so that they stay 24 and not so
much that the leader leaves but that
we're setting unrealistic expectations
upon that leader right like start to
have this you know we're the biggest
instigators of change but we won't
change ourselves there's a book that
I've I've read um laws of human nature
by Robert Green who also did 48 Laws of
Power both great books and he talks
about humans being massively irrational
and we will take
irrational thoughts and rationalize them
which I see a lot in this goal setting
thing well it's irrational to think that
someone's going to last more than 16
months when we have evidence that it
doesn't but we rationalize that they
will last longer it's irrational to
think the team should do it because the
whole team should make more goal you
know so but they rationalize that they
should do it this way so that that's
where I think it's coming from in a lot
of ways but um and again it's like
you're not thinking ahead in terms of
like okay well what's my cost of
retention or
replacement right what's the cost of
having a sh a can I can I curse on
here we're on LinkedIn live so uh having
a um uh unhappy culture let's call it
that you know like you know and they
don't realize these things they just see
us as Bots right that's why this we I
know we're not going to get into it but
that's why I'm so excited to see all
these companies race to the bot of sales
and see that that's not going to work
either because that will only work in a
business B Toc world like like Amazon
and it's not going to change until the
buyer changes their attitude right and
you know the the quick version is look
I'll go and spend three grand on a TV on
Amazon easily right I don't know how
that translates over to to the pound but
you know um and I might even go spend 80
grand on a car but I'm sure as heck not
going to spend 80 grand on a software
initiative where it's my solution only
and it's going to affect four other
departments without talking to a human
Bots aren't going to solve that problem
anytime soon no I think we're agreed
there I think we're agreed and then
let's push to the last point before we
move to before we shift to sales rep's
perspective on their biggest mistakes
and what they need to fix the last Point
number three you mentioned was
unwillingness to realize that training
your sales team is not a oneand done but
an ongoing
effort how do you shift that mindset and
like what's what's the cure
here well I think so that's part of what
I do is that part of my reinforcement
sessions are that um I do some
reinforcement with the managers and the
team after training because I want the
managers to know how to reinforce um the
cool thing is I think from the bottom up
the reps are getting better at this
right we've got the gongs of the world
and the choruses of the world and all
those things and I think reps are
self-educating more than they ever did I
mentioned that earlier so I think that's
a tremendous tremendously great thing
about the role we don't have to sit
around and wait and I also think that
one thing leaders are getting right and
companies are getting right is like
let's give you know Sam a stipend of a
$1,000 or $1,500 a year so if Sam wants
to take a course he can right so I think
that's a big piece of it um so I I I
don't know if I answer the question as
you know uh negatively as you want
wanted me to but that's you know it's
better than it used to be sounds like
things are getting better um are there
any is it one of those things where you
believe that sales leaders have got to
experience the pain in the sense that
they've got to maybe do a big payout
let's say for a sales kickoff so they
get one of the well-known sales trainers
whoever it is they pay a boatload of
cash and they think excellent this
quarter we're going to hit our targets
now because we've had this sales kickoff
and we've V best and then they realize
our sales team were buzzing for a few
days and super hyped for a couple days
after but we actually we need to
constantly be be doing this training we
need to reinforce this is how you run
Discovery this is how you run demos this
is followup this is customer success
whatever is involved and then realizing
that one and done just aren't the cure
to sales results so for me I always say
this um sales kickoffs are some of the
worst times to ever do sales training in
the way that it's been traditionally
done you know where you know someone
like me comes in and does a training you
know all day um what and you nailed it
it's like okay at this sales kickoff
let's do a training for two hours just
on better Discovery like literally what
are the questions we should be asking
around need or economic impact or access
to Authority or timeline um or let's do
a two-hour session on how to run a
better demo like that's it like to try
and do this whole
thing I think is a massive waste of time
and resource because it's just too much
right at a traditional sales kickoff you
know this isn't my line but I've
repeated it is that you know the brain
will only absorb as much as the butt
will tolerate right and if you're trying
to like you know cram all this stuff in
the head of these sales reps and expect
them to memorize it all it's terrible
what Executives forget is that by the
time the kickoff happens they've seen
the deck four or five times they've read
through it they've done it they've built
it they get it it's in it's been engrain
they've studied it the reps are seeing
it the first time right so you know
that's so I'm not a fan of a massive
training I'm a fan of like finding a
snippet finding one thing that you want
them to get better at and do that right
like it's it's you know you know in in
terms of you know European football
right like the real football you know
you practice the corner kick from the
right side over and over and over again
not the left side not the right side you
know you know now you know you don't try
and do it all at once right you do one
thing at a time so everybody memorizes
their position their spot where to move
and then you try to put the ball in play
because you know it all lines up a
certain way till the ball's kicked right
once the ball's kicked everything
changes so true and that this is spoken
from a terrible footballer even though I
play about three days a week I'm I'm
still God awful but I think what you're
trying you're better footballer than I
am a soccer player so you know there you
go and I think uh what you're trying to
get at is it's is am I right in saying
it's not broken down enough so yes we're
trying to cram too much into a single
session rather than correct break
whatever it's down whether it's cold
Outreach whether it's Discovery whether
it's running demos whatever right into
small bite-sized pieces that then
ongoing throughout the year instead we
think let's just ramble this our reps in
a few hours and hope some of it sinks in
and get taken
away gotcha cool man all right so that's
the three leadership mistakes let's push
on to to sales reps themselves be at A's
be at sdrs wherever you want to take it
as practical As You Wish what what what
would you say if you had to condense it
into three of the juiciest most
frustrating and easily fixable mistakes
what is it going to be on a sales rep
Frontier so I think um
I'll speak to the SDR bdr World
um one of the biggest mistakes I think
happens is that when an SDR bdr and I
did this too so I'm not above you know
above everyone if I set at a meeting
that day I'd go take a break I'd be like
H take a break you know I cat I call it
cadillacing around the bases and in
bases I mean baseball right uh which you
know in your part of the world might be
called stickball I don't know you
understand the game but um you know they
sort of saunter around like they just
did everything and it's kind of like
you're losing so much momentum right try
not to do that right stay on the phones
keep your sequence or Cadence going get
back on email and kind of like all right
who's next who's next Who's Next and go
for that second one right particularly
if it's early in the day like if you you
know if you're one of those SDR bdrs and
you set something up in the morning
before lunch it's like I want to go for
two today right so that's the first
mistake I think people make um the
second is they try to change things
every time right um you know it's kind
of like one of those things
where actually let me step back it's not
realizing why they got in their slump as
a mistake I guarantee you if you know I
don't know what something happened why
am I all of a sudden not setting
meetings like two weeks ago three weeks
ago I was setting a meeting a week or
two meetings a week and if I sit down
and talk to him be like okay what
changed oh nothing changed I'm like okay
well let's let's let's go listen to one
of your calls now that we can listen and
you hear it let's go listen to one of
your better ones and I'm like oh do you
see how you cut this part out and this
part out from the ones a couple of weeks
ago and and they'll go oh yeah I'll say
well why did you do that I was getting
bored I was tired of it I'm like dude
it's working why why would you change
something so they change something or
they'll say oh I was given this
suggestion
so I change something and they forget
that what was successful so that's the
first
mistake um the second mistake is they
will change too often so um our friend
Scott Lee taught me this a long time ago
which was you don't ever make a change
in the way you say something until
you've
accomplished you've accomplished it once
that day so if I'm setting meetings and
I want to try a new script if I'm a DDR
okay I'm not allowed to change my script
until I set a meeting the first that
that same day
earlier because if I haven't set one
like so again I've got that momentum
I've got that energy I'm you know
there's a little less pressure so I can
try something different if I try
something different and I haven't set
one that
day all of a sudden by the end of the
day I'm stressing out I'm freaking out
because I haven't hit this number so set
yourself up for Success before you just
make a change for the sake of change got
it okay so let me just check I've got
those three right and for audience so is
the first one not taking breaks after a
win so for example you set a meeting I
don't know you set up a followup
whatever that is right and then not
thinking oh great I've I've nailed this
I'm gonna I don't know go out for a walk
or grab a coffee whatever it may be when
you're on a roll you're on a roll right
is that like it is there like a
psychological thing behind that or is
that just something that you've seen
from doing this so long or I think it's
a little bit of everything right like I
think I can't tell if it's egocentric
because salespeople are like yes you
know and we and I think sometimes we do
need a break I get it I you know if it's
been a long week or maybe it's your
first meeting that you've set you know
um or it's your first demo or or finally
someone said yes to the contract because
I want to make sure people know that I'm
not talking about SDR is doing this AES
do it everybody does it you know um I
think it's a relief it's a way to sort
of let some pressure off um and and
that's healthy good mentally healthy
that's good I think the challenge just
is that you're just missing an
opportunity right like you know I I
think you know again you know you know
when when you score goal in in you know
in football you don't your best player
doesn't want to come off the court off
the pitch just because they scored a
goal they want to go back out and do it
again right they they've got all this
energy right now they take a breath and
they calm and they settle and they
ground
themselves and then I think they go and
do it again and I think that's the
difference I don't know why though I'm
not a not a psychologist as much as I
might like to think I am I think it
makes sense I think it's like if you've
got the momentum it's almost like us as
humans we love to procrastinate I
certainly do yes so if I've got a bunch
of tasks I know I'm always even if I
know that especially now since I've I've
moved over and renamed podcast started
my own agency breaking B2B and I know
that that each day I'll make a list of
the task and I'll always think I've got
to prioritize the one that's going to
drive Revenue whether that's I don't
know doing my first first off doing a
post about a tip around what we do SEO
websites Etc on LinkedIn then I've got
to do these follow-up calls with I don't
know Prospect that are in uh in sales
conversations with then I've got to do
another sales activity but then I'll
think in my head yeah I've got to do
some of these tasks that are going to be
a bit tricky and take some time but I'd
much rather mess around with a podcast
or I'd much rather apply to be on
someone else's marketing podcast it's
like your head starts playing tricks on
you and it's it's much the same with
sales right you think oh I've got the
win I've got the meeting I'm now going
to procrastinate I'll grab a coffee and
I can do that tomorrow and I can push
that back and it's kind of the thing of
like I know better I know I shouldn't do
that but I'm going to and it goes back
to what I said earlier of like we're
irrational people but we rationalize
irrational thoughts right like we
rationalize oh I should go do this
instead you know um and we avoid hard
work oh yeah like the plague like the
plague even even when I've got my to-do
list for the day I'll still mess around
and get to get to four or five o'clock
and wonder where the hell the day went
so uh working on that each day cool
that's point one point two was I think
was not taking a step back and realizing
what caused a slump y for anyone that's
tuning in that's not familiar with a
slump as well walk us through witchard
what that actually means and then how
you can fix it yeah so a slump is you
know that moment when things aren't
going well right like you you were doing
great you were doing fine and all of a
sudden something's not working anymore
right you're not setting as many demos
or your deals aren't moving through the
pipeline after after your demos like
they used to or your Discovery calls
aren't moving to demos whatever it is or
you know you're not setting meetings
that's a slump so we have to figure out
how did I get into that slump what did I
change did I change anything and so
often again we don't want to believe we
changed
anything um and in fact we did and when
we go back and look for it and listen
for it we're like oh that's what I did
and so many times I won't say all the
time it's I got bored so I wanted to
sound different I thought this would
sound better and then you realize it
didn't sound better but you kept doing
it anyway so um you know I I did this
once I had this slump when I first
started and I was doing my Discovery and
you know people would ask me well you
know what do you do and I would say well
you know I teach reps how to earn the
right to ask questions which questions
to ask and when and I thought that was a
mouthful so I tried to be funny and I
changed it and I said you know I tried
to teach reps how to stop saying stupid
[__] you know and that's funny in a bar
that's not appropriate in a business
meeting right and I went back and
changed it and all of a sudden I was out
of my slope right but I it took me a
while to realize like like what is going
on why is my business you know like why
am I not moving stuff forward so happens
to
everybody do you think that often when
I've often what I hear a lot is not just
in sales in marketing too business in
general that it's a common saying that a
full pipeline cures I think it's all
ilks or all Iles right so basically the
saying is as long as you're constantly
filling the pipeline so if you're a
sales rep that might be called cooling
email warm referrals whatever however
you feel your funnel social selling
whatever as a marketer that's going to
be whatever your task with whe that's
running ads SEO demand gen trade shows
whatever your department is is that
right or is there a lot more to it like
you said there actually understanding
what's causing issues and taking a step
backwing what changes
um it's not wrong right like a full
pipeline does unless it's crappy
pipeline right if it's crappy pipeline
that's not good and so again I think we
we've created this belief that 3x the
pipeline is what we need like really you
think you close you know where did that
come from well that's what everybody
says like well what if it was 7x okay
what if it was 2x but it was way better
so this is what I tell everybody to do
is you know if you've got any deal in
your pipeline that's 2x the average
sales cycle then you have to kill it
because so many reps are leaving things
in their pipeline as a reminder and a
Tickler what it's really doing is
reminding you of all the bad stuff it's
it's creating a negative energy when you
look at it you're like having a closet
full of nothing to wear right you I got
25 deals on the pipeline only two are
really any good but why don't you kill
the other ones oh I don't want to do
that my pipeline will look empty my
executive team's going to look bad you
know at me and I'm gonna be like yeah
but it's the truth this goes back to
that forecasting thing this is why
forecasting is so bad is that we allow
too much stuff in there that shouldn't
be in the pipeline in the first place so
you know I you know the important piece
to do and and I say this no matter what
sales trainer you ever hire you look at
your pipeline and you take a snapshot of
it the day before they show up and you
start taking you start measuring get
that against what happens after that
person shows up and the training is
instigated and you start looking at the
new deals are the new deals better
qualified there might be fewer of
them but that's okay because they're
more realistic and that's what everybody
wants in the first place so there's a
there's a lot of gamesmanship around
this whole pipeline creation in how much
pipeline so yes it it does a full
pipeline does not cure all Wills all
ills you know what does um hitting
Revenue targets like so it's not about
you know yes you need a pipeline but you
got to hit the numbers with good deals I
guess it's about it's a combination of
things as as always there's never one
clear answer but I suppose it's yeah
it's being stricter with what you enter
into pipeline yeah and so sorry go ahead
and what qualify out yeah so I call it
like if you don't have strong exit
criteria from one stage to the next
meaning these are the very specific
activities that need to have occurred in
order for us to move it from stage one
to stage two or two to three or
whatever then that's where your pipeline
fails right that's that's a place
because you're not defining it well and
by the way demo is not a pipeline stage
demo is an activity within a particular
pipeline stage so the exit criteria are
was the demo scheduled was the demo
complete not demo stage not proposal
stage those are terrible stage names but
that's a whole other tangent so do you
have this might be quite useful actually
especially for marketers tuning in
they're working with their sales team
and perhaps getting frustrated with
sales reps when they look when the
marketers then go to look at the sales
reps Pipeline and see certain things
marked I like you said there perhaps
Discovery cool ran or demo sat or
pushing to sign proposal or pushing to
sign agreement is there like a this is a
generic qu question I and I appreciate
there's going to be a lot of nuance to
it but when it comes to actually setting
realistic stages in putting pipeline
through is there like a framework you
should follow or there any
recommendations that you can give oh
absolutely so starting at the highest
level in marketing you have a suspect
someone you think could be the right
person you then have a prospect when you
realize that they probably are you then
move into qualifying stage then you move
into Discovery stage then you move into
selection stage then you move into
negotiation stage and then you move into
closing and So within that there are
certain things that must occur right so
you know access to Authority you know
not necessarily stage one like you don't
need to know who who the decision maker
is in your first meeting that's the
dumbest thing in the world to try and
figure out the most important thing is
do they have a pain and how painful is
it for them do they have a headache or a
migraine so understanding that you know
did they did you discuss the very
specific pains and targets and were you
able to drive to some economic impact in
qualification and Discovery that's more
important than all the other stuff right
it needs to be
more customer Centric for lack of a
better phrase right there's no such
thing this is the part marketing is
going to hate so let's do that there's
no such thing as a buyer's Journey it
does not exist there does not exist all
that exists is a buyer's
experience there's a sell's journey
that's created by sales and
marketing but there's not a buyer's
Journey why is there not
aell because that a buyer Journey means
that they're on this path to go do
something because they want to no
they're looking for an
experience how many Sam how many apps do
you have on your
phone 50 odd yeah getting towards I
expect yeah how many are more on there
but you've had a but you haven't deleted
it but it's because you have a bad
experience H there's all sorts there's
plenty right so the only part of the
journey might be hm I'm
curious however before so I'm going to
go look look for an app however before
you did that you had an experience that
says I want to solve this problem so
there's a buyer's experience that you're
going
through and that's the part that matters
there's a seller's Journey that's the
process that's the stages and I build it
off of the experience I want them to
have right how many websites have you
landed on and you're like this is a
shitty website I'm out of here okay yeah
man all the time
but that's what I mean there's no buyer
Journey there's all it's only instigated
by an
experience I like your spin on that
because I mean it's it's some I suppose
it's something that's talked about a
fair bit when I look at kind of beb
marketers chatting various things on
LinkedIn and where have you and you're
right I mean I think as marketers
sometimes we're guilty of falling into
traps and thinking that if we run
certain campaigns then our prospects
going to follow it whether that is I
don't know LinkedIn adds to a lead
magnet to nurture campaign whether that
is via emails or via ads to then
eventually requesting demo to then going
for a flow and the truth is like B2B is
so complex and especially when you get
into larger scale deals people just
don't do what you want them to do and
the way that people buy especially in
B2B in as the sale becomes more complex
and software and service based higher
ticket deals you can't you can't control
what your prospects are going to do what
your potential customers are can going
to do like you said experience is a good
way of putting it yeah and so you so if
you take that
approach you can lead them you cannot
control them you know so here's here's
how I Define the difference right is
that don't talk about what you
do talk about the pain you solve right
so I'll give you and this is the
challenge I see between sales and
marketing right sales needs to talk
about the pain marketing locks to talk
about what you
do so my example is I used to say and
and you know oh I'm a sales trainer and
I've trained companies like zoom and
Salesforce and whatever it's like blah
who cares right so does everybody else
but if I say I teach reps how to earn
the right to ask questions which
questions to ask and
when there's not a sales leader or
marketing leader who doesn't understand
exactly what that is and in most cases
they can go yeah I know three people on
our team who get better at that so talk
about the pain you solve in the context
of your
customer right in a way that paints a
picture of pain that tells a story not
what you
do right um it's very specific as well
isn't it it's very relatable what youve
what you've defined there although it's
only a sentence it's very crisp it's to
the point and it's something that you
can always like you say imagine it in
your head yep and that's a big piece of
the you know you know a good sales
trainer will teach your team how to do
that I think a lot of people in general
could learn learn some learn something
from that for the way that they describe
their business or their tagline or like
you mentioned the problem they fix being
able to being able to clearly and sustin
say what you do but in a sentence that
shares the problem that you fix at the
same time is it sounds easy but it's
very very difficult yeah yeah yeah
that's the goal and it's it's kind of
like saying everybody's talking to you
because they got a headache it's our job
as salespeople to make them realize they
actually have a
migraine cool man I think we we did I
think we did two of the two of the
issues with sales I think we touched on
the third one which I believe was
changing too often with processes was
that right or yeah yeah it was the
process and then it was like how do I
articulate it might be the third one how
do I articulate what my what we're doing
gotcha being able to and have we covered
that already in terms of kind of clearly
defining kind of the offer or the
problem you fix or is there more to more
to go into there yeah yeah don't ask me
if we did two or three I'm I'm in sales
I I have the memory of a goldfish oh
dude same here same here um yeah I like
the way this conversation's gone we've
we've covered some some useful angles
and I believe it's going to be useful
for for marketing teams especially ones
that probably working closely with sales
and probably looking at the pipeline and
probably wondering why AR these deals
progressing as fast as they should be
like is it sales SW and hopefully that
gives another side of the coin which I
like to do on this show quite a lot um
but just to just to take one dig at
marketing I'm a marketer myself so I can
get away with it how often of the time
is it marketing's fault for sending
quote unquote bad leads to
sales well I mean if they're truly bad
leads then that's marketing's fault I
think the the the real question is like
what's the relationship like between
sales and Market marketing to figure
this out right and and you know sales if
your head of sales sits around and
blames marketing but doesn't sit down to
talk to marketing then that's not
marketing's fault if your head of sales
wants to sit down with marketing but
marketing wants to discount or
disbelieve what the salesperson's saying
then that's marketing's fault so I think
there's a a communication gap that
happens there um which is also one of
the reasons I think the cro the chief
Revenue officer has evolved D in the
last three or four years right that you
know when you and I started that that
didn't really even exist we like what's
that and so now there's someone who can
be the judge of sales and marketing and
find the right answer so um that's the
good news um if marketing is truly
sending bad leads yes what's interesting
is if you look at the average tenure of
a marketer versus the average tenure of
a sales leader uh it's ridiculously low
I want to say the last time I looked the
average tenure of marketer was like two
and a half years meanwhile a sales
leader was 16 or 18 months so that
doesn't mean the marketer's getting it
right because the sales leader was
getting fired for not hitting the goal
so that's part of it the other piece I
will say is uh and you tell me if this
is happening marketing actually needs to
own the number they actually have to
generate a revenue Target and that
scares the heck out of marketers well I
can't control that and it's like well
then the salespeople can't control the
quality of the lead like no marketing
you have to own a piece of the number a
percentage of Revenue has to come from
you now where that falls apart is that
everybody wants single attribution to
the deal and that's not
appropriate that's and that's an
executive stupid decision oh only
marketing or only sales can get paid
because God forbid we maybe
overcompensate the Smee right it's like
really like if if if there are a
percentage of deals that get double
dinged for compensation
and you're going to go out of business
because of that then you got a way
bigger problem than sales and marketing
so this sole attribution of either sales
or either marketing is just stupid now
there could be a rule of look if
marketing hasn't touched them in you
know 18 months okay then it can't be but
even then if the salesperson's using
content and collateral for marketing
well then why doesn't marketing get
credit for that like that's so stupid to
me so I I I think it has a it's a
built-in problem as much as it is
someone's fault so to speak at at the
marketing side so I'm being pretty nice
to marketing I think Sam I think so I
think I'm I'm harsh and marketers all
the time and I I I do be marketing right
like I often think that I do agree I
think btb marketers should be held
accountable to revenue numbers and I
think that a lot of marketers in my
opinion have it too easy and I believe
that they should should get that on the
front lines because having sold and
having marketed selling is way bloody
tougher in my honest opinion because a
lot of mar a lot of the time marketers
can hide behind certain things and blame
sales and once you get in the cold front
line of doing things like cold cooling
dealing with objections face on you'll
realize that your life as a marketer is
so much easier and if
you go ahead go ahead yeah yeah and I
was going to say if marketers just took
one day out to kind of realize that some
of the [__] that sales people deal with
then they they'd have a lot more
sympathy and they' realize well how come
we can support these folks like like you
so I mean we we talk about this stuff on
the on the show The all the time like
working with your sales team to
understand like the top five objections
top to three to five juicy breathing
bleeding neck problems you fix how you
can leverage your that and the media the
content the ads you put out so you can
work together but you can both be held
accountable especially when it comes to
larger deal Cycles because yeah it's not
just sales that are accountable
marketing is going to be influencing
this pipeline as it goes so without
taking too much of a tangent I
definitely agree with that point
wholeheartedly as regular listeners of
the show will know so there's so this is
a suggestion too um and I love that you
said you know marketers should get on
the front line and make some coold calls
and stuff like that um and if there's
any marketers who want to know well I
don't know how to do it I'll send you a
script it's pretty simple someone picks
up the phone you just say oh wow someone
picked up the phone oh my God Sam
someone picked up the phone you just
made my day look if you don't like what
I have to say you can just hang up on me
is that okay there you go that's your
script marketing now what I will say by
the way this goes back to to all the way
back to the leadership stuff is the best
advice I give all sales leaders and it
falls with this marketing leaders is
have a sales leader to run a discovery
call record it and send it to the team
and tell the team to break it down tell
me what I missed if my VP of sales did
that and was that vulnerable wow what
would that do to my culture right so I
think that's a huge huge thing um that
people should pay attention to in terms
of like how do I motivate without having
to you know use a Carr or stick put
you're you're right put yourself in
there put yourself in there have a CEO
do the same thing right so that that's
how I encourage people to to look at
this I like it and I'm sure a lot of
marketers are going to have opinions on
this so I look forward to seeing those
whether that is in the comments or feel
free to email me Sam Sam .g or drop
either myself or Richard a message on
LinkedIn we we open openly accept the
feedback so that Richard really enjoyed
the conversation thank you for joining
me we'll have to do it it more
frequently than four years next time yes
please do tell us more about how
everyone tuning in can learn from you
please tell us more about the new book
and anything you want to share yeah so
um my book is coming out uh it's called
the sellers journey in case you you for
those who were watching you didn't see
it in the background with my lovely
display
um and it is a practical and tactical
approach to selling it has a ton of
sales uh tips like how to negotiate with
um with procurement and how to stop
giving discounts and how to use an
versus but so there's a ton of tactics
in there as well as some mindset stuff
so I appreciate it you can find it at
the sellers
journey. Sellers journey. and I'm crazy
Sam plus one
415596 9149 41 5596 9149 yeah that's my
real cell phone number it's the one that
Sam and I can text on yes I'm on
WhatsApp so I'm always here to answer a
question support people do what I can
you might want to text me first just say
hey I heard you on Sam's podcast um can
I chat with you so I will gladly take uh
phone calls and of course you can find
me on LinkedIn uh Richard Harris and I'm
the one with a little trademark symbol
by my name to me goofy I think you're
the first person to share their cell
phone number on the show so only person
who ever does it I'm the only person and
rarely do people ever call me it's like
we're in sales and people don't call me
and I give out my phone number my phone
numberers in my LinkedIn profile you
know what I get a lot of terrible in you
know
inails don't so you know it's not from a
lack of effort for me to make it easy so
good man good man we're gonna put the
links to your book and all those
resources Below in the show notes thank
you once again Richard really enjoyed
the chat and yeah thanks thanks to you
thanks to everyone for for watching tune
in today we got to give a quick shout
out to the show sponsors Revenue hero
and factors Ai and if you want to check
out past episodes check out the daily
newsletter or apply to work with us on
your B2B marketing head over to Breaking
B2B docomo
[Music]
soon